get-started: add GoLand tutorial in "Setup an IDE" (#2)
zz-jason/tidb-dev-guide: get-started/setup-an-ide.md

# Setup an IDE

## vs code

> ## goland

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## GoLand
```
😉

> You can use GoLand to easily run or debug TiDB in many situations, .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use GoLand to easily run or debug TiDB in many situations.
```

> 0. make sure your `go` and `dlv` work well.

Reviewer: We can capitalize the first word, and provide a script for evaluate that `go` and `dlv` work well. BTW, what is `dlv`?

Author: The full name of dlv is [delve](https://github.com/go-delve/delve), which is the most popular debugging tool of golang, and used by GoLand debugging.

In my assumption, the previous chapters will tell users how to make these tools work well(x).

# Setup an IDE

## vs code

## GoLand

> You can use GoLand to easily run or debug TiDB in many situations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use [GoLand](https://www.jetbrains.com/go/) to easily run or debug TiDB in many situations.
```

> > Goland uses [delve](https://github.com/go-delve/delve) to debug go programs, usually GoLand has an usable delve and needn't any additional configuration. But in some cases, you may need to download a delve by yourself.

Reviewer 2: before this note, could you add some reproducible steps about how to install goland in the local machine?

Author: maybe a page https://www.jetbrains.com/go/download/ is enough...

> 0. Make sure your `go` environment work well, see previous sections for more information.
> 1. Open TiDB project in GoLand.
> 2. Add these config files to `<tidb-dir>/.idea/runConfigurations/` directory:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Make sure your `go` environment works well, see previous sections for more information.
2. Open the TiDB project in GoLand.
3. Add these config files to `<tidb-dir>/.idea/runConfigurations/` directory:
```

> 3. Add these config files to `<tidb-dir>/.idea/runConfigurations/` directory:

Reviewer 2: seems like you should remove the heading spaces to render the content correctly

Author: do you mean the space between `.` and `M` in `1. M`?

I try to remove them but get worse format.

  - unistore_4000.xml
  ```xml
  <component name="ProjectRunConfigurationManager">
    <configuration default="false" name="unistore 4000" type="GoApplicationRunConfiguration" factoryName="Go Application">
      <module name="tidb" />

>       <working_directory value="$PROJECT_DIR$" />

Reviewer 2: does the audience need to replace this variable with the actual path?

Author: they needn't, this is GoLand's variable.

Author: they needn't because this is GoLand's variable, and has been tested for another macOS computer.

# Setup an IDE

## vs code

## GoLand

You can use [GoLand](https://www.jetbrains.com/go/) to easily run or debug TiDB in many situations.

> Goland uses [delve](https://github.com/go-delve/delve) to debug go programs, usually GoLand has an usable delve and needn't any additional configuration. But in some cases, you may need to download a delve by yourself.

1. Make sure your `go` environment works well, see previous sections for more information.
2. If you don't have GoLand, you just need to download it [here](https://www.jetbrains.com/go/download/) and install it.

> 3. Open the TiDB project in GoLand.

Reviewer 2: could you add some pictures here to help the audience be able to check whether their operations are correct?

> 1. Make sure your `go` environment works well, see previous sections for more information.
> 2. If you don't have GoLand, you just need to download it [here](https://www.jetbrains.com/go/download/) and install it.
> 3. Open the TiDB project in GoLand.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Step 1. Setup `go` environment, see previous sections for more information.
Step 2. Download `GoLand` [here](https://www.jetbrains.com/go/download/) and install it.
Step 3. Open the TiDB project in GoLand.
```

> 4. Add these config files to `<tidb-dir>/.idea/runConfigurations/` directory:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Step 4. Add these 3 config files to `<tidb-dir>/.idea/runConfigurations/` directory:
```

        <kind value="PACKAGE" />
        <filePath value="$PROJECT_DIR$/tidb-server/main.go" />
        <package value="github.com/pingcap/tidb/tidb-server" />
        <directory value="$PROJECT_DIR$" />
        <method v="2" />
      </configuration>
    </component>
    ```
  
    - unit_test.xml
    ```xml
    <component name="ProjectRunConfigurationManager">
      <configuration default="false" name="unit test" type="GoTestRunConfiguration" factoryName="Go Test">
        <module name="tidb" />
        <working_directory value="$PROJECT_DIR$" />
        <go_parameters value="-i" />
        <framework value="gocheck" />
        <kind value="DIRECTORY" />
        <package value="github.com/pingcap/tidb" />
        <directory value="$PROJECT_DIR$/planner/core" />
        <filePath value="$PROJECT_DIR$" />
        <pattern value="TestEnforceMPP" />
        <method v="2" />
      </configuration>
    </component>
    ```

5. Now you can see the run/debug configs in the right upper corner, but if there aren't, you can still add them manually in the dialog.
![configs](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/30543181/118766709-63ea0200-b8af-11eb-9176-bc3fb6f566d4.png)

> 

Reviewer 2: one empty line is enough

 ![run in unistore](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/30543181/118769645-f9d35c00-b8b2-11eb-9048-1b696ead2815.png)

 - the second config is `playground attach 4001`, which makes you can run/debug TiDB to attach a existed cluster, for example, [`tiup playground`](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/stable/tiup-playground).
   After it started, you can connect to the origin TiDB by port 4000, or connect to your TiDB by port 4001 at the same time.
![playground attach config](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/30543181/118767132-f38fb080-b8af-11eb-93cd-bdbe95ff2102.png)
![debug](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/30543181/118771847-9860bc80-b8b5-11eb-856f-4b4f21d035de.png)

 - the third config is `unit test`, which makes you can run/debug TiDB's unit test.
![unit test config](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/30543181/118767852-dad3ca80-b8b0-11eb-86ae-306bd4a995bc.png)
![unit test](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/30543181/118769164-7285e880-b8b2-11eb-923e-c3eaffcddfd6.png)
   And you can modify the `Directory` and `Pattern` to run other tests.
 

> 

Reviewer 2: ditto

# Setup an IDE

## vs code

## GoLand

You can use [GoLand](https://www.jetbrains.com/go/) to easily run or debug TiDB in many situations.

> Goland uses [delve](https://github.com/go-delve/delve) to debug go programs, usually GoLand has an usable delve and needn't any additional configuration. But in some cases, you may need to download a delve by yourself.

Step 1. Setup `go` environment, see previous sections for more information.

Step 2. Download `GoLand` [here](https://www.jetbrains.com/go/download/) and install it.

Step 3. Open the TiDB project in GoLand.

Step 4. Add these config files to `<tidb-dir>/.idea/runConfigurations/` directory:

- unistore_4000.xml
```xml
<component name="ProjectRunConfigurationManager">
  <configuration default="false" name="unistore 4000" type="GoApplicationRunConfiguration" factoryName="Go Application">
    <module name="tidb" />

>     <working_directory value="$PROJECT_DIR$" />

Reviewer 2: does the user need to replace `$PROJECT_DIR$` with a concert directory path? please directly point out this information
